# micro_model
These codes are generated by Dr. Manish Kumar and Prof. Enrico Salvati
which can be used as a computational model to simulate the presence of
the secondary small phases present in the polycrystalline materials, 
e.g., inclusions, intermetallic, and many more. The provided codes can
be used to generate a mathematical domain to resemble actual microstructures,
which can be used in various micromechanical models. For instance, in crystal
plasticity, phase transformations, failure mechanisms through Phase-Filed or
Cohesive Zone Method, etc. The provided code is for the two-dimensional model
but can be easily extended to the three-dimensional problem.

Contact email: Manish Kumar <manish.kumar@uniud.it>, Enrico Salvati
<enrico.salvati@uniud.it>, Group website https://simed.uniud.it/

The provided codes are developed using the Python API of Gmsh and 
FEniCS in the Python 3.0 environment. To use this code, installation
of Python API for Gmsh is required, which is available on
https://pypi.org/project/gmsh/ 

Copyright (C) <2023>  <Manish Kumar>

This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License or 
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful, 
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY, without even the implied warranty of 
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the 
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License 
along with these programs. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

Two codes are provided: 
	
	1.	mesh_sub.py  => To generate 2D rectangular domain resembling
       	a polycrystalline material that contains the primary and secondary
		small subdomains using the Python API of the Gmsh library.

	2.	simulation_sub.py => To import the generated mesh, assign the 
	    different material properties to the domain and subdomains, 
		and simulate for the linear elastic isotropic material considering
		small-scale deformations using the Python API of the FEniCS library.

Command to convert .msh file into .xml

dolfin-convert inputmesh.msh outputmesh.xml.


More conceptual details about code development can be found in the provided document.
